foreign
[Music]
I need to feel it and like feel through
it and learn about it welcome to the art
of accomplishment where we explore how
deepening connection with ourselves and
others leads to creating the life we
want with enjoyment and ease
hey everyone today's episode is a
coaching session between Joe and an
anonymous listener of our podcast the
session begins with our guest expressing
a sincere desire to show up more fully
in life despite fears of offending the
people around him let's dive in and see
where this goes
yeah tell me what's what's happening
what do you want to work on what's going
on
[Laughter]
smile look at that smile
oh I've been doing my best to find out
where I'm stuck
and what I'm
landed on is like this
being myself
and like
how do I do that for example at work
like how do I interrupt people
how do I say what I want without it
feeling like I'm attacking them
just like feeling like it's you or
feeling like it to them what what do you
mean
my projection I guess okay
there's air there's actually something
that you said before which is really
interesting to me you said I'm trying to
figure out
how I'm stuck
yeah but what makes it not obvious
what makes you need to figure that out
because
I was feeling like I was doing great
like oh I'm like in a good place now a
good process things are moving and I oh
I'm working with Joe
okay let's find a stack place and like I
can't just say everything is going well
hey what makes you not be able to say
that
this is great
oh oh yeah what makes
because it has to deliver quality
so it's it's the same thing it's the
same thing right not being able to say
what you think whether it's positive or
negative whether you think you're
interrupting or whether
I'm wondering are both of them around
quality how is your mind conflating if
at all
quality and being polite or quality and
offending people
I'm sure you're onto something because
now my mind just went like
quality like I want to deliver quality
or I maybe I have a should
and
then there's this I want to be myself
yeah so what makes you think that who
you are is in quality
I have this belief that people can't
handle me
I'm confident Within Myself like oh I
know like I know stuff I'm good at
my work for instance and
like but like oh but people get offended
and okay so who is provided quality who
hasn't gotten who hasn't offended people
like can you point to one person
foreign
I felt like Martin Luther King was the
name that showed up oh he offended the
heck out of people yeah
yeah
there was a whole bunch there was a
whole bunch of white folks who were
totally pissed at that dude
yeah you're very right
maybe maybe he showed up in my mind like
because
it's so clear like like the clips I've
seen from his speech yeah like he's just
he's just himself 100 percent
and that's what I'm scared of you say
it's about quality but let's go back to
the question who is delivered quality
who hasn't offended people
who is
no one I can't
um
no like that kind no
no I know the people popping up in my
mind it's a bit of a trick question
because like who do you know who hasn't
offended people
now that you say it like that
so what makes me want to let's say I can
do it let's say there's a button and we
can push that button and you would never
offend anybody again
yeah would you want me to push that
button
there's a hesitation oh yeah right yeah
yeah the person is like yes and then
quite quickly no but then I can't be
myself or I can't like
say my meaning or like do my work what
would it look like if you couldn't
offend anybody like that's it button
press
well there's two versions the one where
I'm like going out being an ass to
everyone and like they're all okay with
it oh okay but then it's like it's like
they don't accept me they can't they
just ignore me so they do they don't
deal with me yeah I mean yeah I mean the
other way meaning that the other way
where like when I don't do anything
well then I'm not myself
Beyond who you are literally what would
it look like
oh it would look like what I'm trying to
do like like trying like being this
completely different person to everyone
and then but then like once two people
other than me gets in the same room with
me like it collapses because I can't
like I can't please them both
yeah right now
say something that you are absolutely
100 won't offend me
uh you have a blue sweater
right so that's a pretty good guess but
there's definitely somebody who would be
offended if you said you have a blue
sweater
maybe some fashion persons like this
isn't blue this is periwinkle
yeah stupid oaf like I put hours into
this sweater so that because it's
Periwinkle and you just call it blue
like you don't understand my
Genius of fashion it's periwinkle
yeah somebody somewhere is going to be
offended that it's a blue sweater maybe
it's like a and a blood
right like
I don't know like wearing blue could be
offensive to some group of people on
some you know yeah no like I got afraid
oh is it a sweater I can only see like
your shoes
laughs
I just don't even know how it would look
because you would have to be able to
read everybody's mind
and know exactly what they wanted to say
and never say anything besides that or
say exactly what they wanted you to say
and you could never say anything besides
that
yeah that doesn't leave much but but
feel it for a second like literally feel
what it would be like to walk through
the world only saying things that you
knew
it's like it's like I'm
disappearing like I'm meeting someone
and there's like there's no me there's
just like
a reflection of their
and their wants and should yeah
yeah and that would be tricky because a
lot of people get really pissed when you
reflect who they are back
yeah yeah
that's true yeah so what percentage of
the time do you want to
not offend people
but I don't want to offend everyone all
the time
laughs
uh that would even be hard
that would also be impossible
yeah like you can't the most offensive
people still have fans
yeah and they're doing their best
okay well I did not offend
if you could control it which you can't
control how would you control it what
would be the exact dial setting you
would put towards your offending of
others
since it's not no offense
okay I want to not offend others
somewhere above 50 percent
okay so the dial would be I can offend
people 50 of the time but 50 minimum
maximum maximum 50 of the time I kind of
funny yeah
okay so let's look at that let's see
what that would actually be like
let's say there's somebody who's just
offended by everything so how would you
deal with that I then I would have to
make up for it with someone else
I guess then that person okay you're 100
offended then I need to find someone
yet
yeah name a person who you think
operates in the world with a greater
fifty percent offense rate
okay okay
I'm thinking going through people at
work
so just so you know somebody's offended
by you currently listening to this
podcast but go ahead
he laughs too much
oh yeah
and you smile notice you smile you
actually kind of laugh at it
yeah
oh it's so it's so mixed yeah but so
part of me is smiling at all this yeah
okay so who has the net
51 or greater net offense average
[Music]
like I'm I'm thinking just that it's
that difficult tells me
even if you are right you know
just that it's that difficult tells me
that the probability of you being that
person is pretty low
by just Who You Are
yeah and also if I can think of someone
I'm realizing yeah but that's just my
relationship to that person correct
that's right yeah
and also like when I stop to think like
I know
I don't offend most people most of the
time right right even somebody like the
most offensive politician that you've
ever seen
like somehow or another gets close to 50
of the votes yeah
and and even if people aren't voting for
them doesn't mean they're not offended
by them they might find it humorous or
disturbing but maybe not offense
if you had to choose okay you could be
yourself or you could offend people 51
of the time like you like you either
have to offend people 51 of the time and
be yourself or you have to
be yourself and offend people 51 of the
time right or not offend not be yourself
and therefore not offend people 50 of
the time how
yeah if I got that correct like yeah my
gut tells me I want to offend people
then okay yeah I want to be fine with it
yeah and I want to do it in a way how
are you not fine with it now
you're offending people now
all the time daily
and yet you hear you are sitting here
talking about it as a because that might
offend people more you're on like you're
doing this podcast and that's gonna
definitely offend some people so how are
you not fine with it currently
okay okay
I'll play so okay I'm fine with it now
so then I'm curious though so what
happens today in a meeting like someone
was talking too much and like
I'm confident with myself okay I have
the information I need I want to stop
this meeting and I did eventually but
like there's this no I I can't she's in
the middle of a sentence oh then there
she started another sentence and then
okay I'll just wait to no okay I'll wait
to you know so what what happens then
what makes me lose this
yeah that's a great question so what's
the emotion you're trying to avoid
in that moment
anger
her anger safe hair first and then anger
came up okay so the fear you're feeling
because you're scared to interrupt her
yeah so you're scared that she'll get
angry and then what will happen to you
if she gets angry what's what's the
internal feeling you're trying to avoid
oh like then my mom showed up
so what is it what's the feeling that
comes in you when that person gets
offended
oh there's this uh
unconnected us I'm shut out yeah often
shame is that is what that feels like
but but we'll just say unconnectedness
so something yeah makes sense yeah yeah
with humans
um shame is basically the feeling you
get with disconnection often you know
like a little kid with a whole bunch of
aunties and the little kid farts and the
aunties oh my God I can't believe that
you farted
that kid's gonna feel shame because that
disconnection but if all the aunties
laugh and be like oh you little tutor
then I'll probably fart again they don't
feel shame
yeah oh it's just pulling away this
disconnection so that's the feeling you
don't want to feel shame
so as let's let's see let's verify this
if if I could snap my fingers and you
couldn't feel shame when people
when people got angry at you for being
rude or whatever yeah problem solved
okay
right yeah
that feels very true yeah yeah so what's
so uncomfortable with that shame what's
what's wrong with it
it's like the manifestation of
unconnectedness of being alone
can we experiment with it
yeah your microphone is like blowing out
and this podcast isn't going to be
usable and like if you're wasting my
time you're wasting my time
so don't don't disconnect from yourself
for a moment
their sadness
[Music]
yeah
first I smiling left and then there is
like
this emptiness and sadness yeah
so what happens if you just say that
to me
I know you are but as if it as if we're
in a real conversation not not this this
isn't real but if we were in a like more
normal conversation
if you're like oh wow it makes me sad
that that we're disconnected right now
I feel I'm starting to feel disconnected
and that makes me sad
yeah
well don't blame me for that don't blame
me that we're disconnected it's your
microphone
uh I'm fighting the impulse to say I'm
sorry
great
well first of all let's try that try
saying you're sorry but that doesn't
mean to buy into the shame
I'm sorry yeah um I'm sorry
there's a different kind of sorry there
yeah I can feel it yeah I'm sorry about
it
yeah sorry about my microphones yeah
it's like it's like oh I'm sorry that
you hurt yourself it's not like I've
done anything wrong
yeah like I'm sad about the situation
yeah too
yeah okay so let's try it again don't
blame me that you're sad it's your
microphone I'm I'm like I'm not the one
who who bought your microphone and said
it was fine
I'm sorry that my microphone is busted
all right
I'm not sure how we can fix it right now
I just can't believe this you you've
wasted my time we should just end this
thing right now just end it
there's like so this wall
coming or
like pressure
from my body
so the only thing that's happening right
now that's different than normal is that
you're actually going into the emotional
state instead of normally you're trying
to
bend it off hand it off yeah exactly
right so if you keep on going in then
you keep on being vulnerable and then
their sadness yeah so but what's the
problem
yeah
and it's not
that's scary
it's not scary or it is scary then it is
not that scary yeah
yeah
let's try it a different way just
because a lot of people won't just get
angry like that so
just say something to me that might be
offensive
as true as you can make it yeah you're a
hat is a bit often looks weird
sorry it's so true
okay do it again I will I have to be in
in character go ahead say it again okay
okay Joe ever had this a bit off and it
looks weird
okay fine
um
I I gotta go I'll see you
[Applause]
yeah there's this freeze
so be with the shame and what wants to
be said
don't go
I don't want you to go
yeah
so vulnerable right yeah
yeah no I'm leaving now like don't guilt
me
now I'm leaving
I'm sad that you're leaving
I still don't want you to leave
right it might even be sometimes
okay yeah
I understand you want to leave
you might actually not want them to stay
it could could happen too yeah yeah
like yeah at the other side of this
then like both options are
more clear yeah
yeah
it seems to bring us back to that
question which is like well what made
you have to think that there was
something wrong
what made me think yeah you're beginning
you said I've been thinking about what's
wrong
findings where I'm stuck yeah it's an
interesting thing like
in a weird way what you're doing right
now is assuming that there's nothing
wrong what's happening in your system
for you to get to the place that you're
getting to right now
they get upset and you're like oh
there's nothing wrong with this there's
nothing wrong with the emotional place
that I'm in how do I want to react
yeah
it's it's the other side of the offense
story too which is
if you never offend anybody you can
never really build trust
if I never offend anybody I can never
really build trust
think about the least defensive person
you know
oh yeah yeah I'm like where's your
boundaries where's
yeah yeah
trust is built by having conflict and
overcoming it together
I need to have conflict I want to have
oh
that's a hard sentence
I want
I want to say it I want to have conflict
really make sure that last part of the
sentence is there I want to have
conflict and learn how to overcome it
yeah so people can trust me
yeah and I can trust myself
I'm looking at your face you're like oh
wait that's a different reality
[Laughter]
[Music]
yeah yeah
like the most trustworthy people are not
conflict avoiding when you just look at
them in the world like the best CEOs
that you would trust to put your money
in are conflict appointment
the best social activists aren't
conflict avoiding
the best doctors aren't conflict
avoidant
the best CPAs whatever it is
the best friends
yeah people who tell you what they
actually think instead of trying to make
you happy
those are the ones we value
yeah so then it's like okay I'll I'll go
back into the world and I'll make some
conflict
yeah you don't even have to make it it's
just what's gonna happen if you are
human
yeah it seems to be the course of
humanity we we have conflict I'll accept
conflict and feel into it and through it
and then it's like some
friends won't like it as much as others
correct
here's a weird question how else are you
gonna heal your shame
how else am I gonna heal my shame
other than
conflicting utterly conflict
and distancing myself from some friends
in the process
maybe who knows what they're going to do
that's that you can't control that
hmm okay and my belief
you're gonna risk it for sure
how am I gonna heal
I said I know it's always a good spot
when I like lose all thoughts like like
the question is how else could you heal
your shame
how else can I have my shame if it is an
inviting conflict what's what's another
approach
to heal my same
I need to feel it and like feel through
it and learn about it yeah and so then
there would have to be another way than
Conflict for me
that's it for my shame to get triggered
yeah brilliant
I guess I can't shave myself I don't
know if I'm in a desert I could project
like my parents or something great but
you are doing that
yeah I'm already doing that
the broader Point here is that if you
love the shame invite the shame can't
wait for the shame because that's the
chance to get to know the shame better
and to integrate it
it's not to get rid of it because if you
love it and you want it then you're not
getting rid of it
if you see shame that way
as just a signal that you're
disconnected
then it is like it's like having a
constant reminder whenever you feel
disconnected
and so it allows you to reconnect
it's an amazing it's an amazing feature
like when you said that my comment about
your hat showed up and I felt shame
about it
it's a pretty ugly hat it is do you see
the creases right here it's because my
head is so huge and it's like clearly
Sun bleached and it's crooked it's
my events at my at the hat is is about
me so this is the other point about it
is like you want to take away my healing
Journey
how do I know you're just not stuck I
don't know you'll actually heal
oh correct you don't that's not your
business
I'm gonna take away your opportunity
correct
if you look at Tibetan teaching like um
one form of the Tibetan teaching they
take the monks in and the first stage of
the teaching is we're friends and and
you build this deep connection and then
the second stage of the teaching is they
do everything they possibly can to
offend the student
the student informed up front no of
course not okay
because if I offend you then I am
pointing to an ego that still is running
your life
yeah now now granted that's a consensual
agreement to some degree and like you're
there for the teaching and you trust the
teacher to teach you the way that
and at the same time there's truth to it
in in every aspect of this right that
that if you are constantly
avoiding the conflict then you are are
stopping the chance for people to learn
and you see this in companies all the
time the conflict of women leader does
not have a team that is
transforming evolving overcoming they
just sit on stagnant problems
yes right whereas leaders who aren't
conflict of wouldn't say Steve Jobs
would be a great example of that
Innovation all the time
yeah that I'm suggesting you have to
yell at people please I'm not but but my
point is that that conflict avoidance
pretty much can can guarantee stagnation
in an organization
and in people
and in marriages and then
yeah
so just to weigh this out you can be
yourself
and you can heal your shame and you can
give the opportunity for other people to
grow and you can have a non-stagnant
life
or you can try to not offend people and
you cannot heal your shame and you can
prevent the opportunities for other
people to grow
and you can have a stagnant organization
well I like the first one
the choices the choice is quite obvious
however we don't make choices logically
we make choices emotionally right so if
I take an emotional Center out of your
brain
then you cease to make decisions you
spend you know half an hour deciding
what color pen to use there's great
neuro research on this
so it's really not a logical decision
it's just I don't want to feel that
shame
that's it
yeah
and then we even turn that into a
spiritual thing where we're
like I'm not doing as good spiritually
because I'm feeling shame you know I'm
not making progress there's all sorts of
great reasons we have to get rid of our
emotional states whatever they are
I you said like
uh all right this is the scariest I
wouldn't do it he said I was choosing
what what the color something and I I
wanted to joke about or choosing what
color had to use
and then I like
oh then I would feel shame like oh I
should say it yeah
I just did
you heard it
oh yeah
and also like I felt shame for not
saying it because oh I'm not being a
good coach she or whatever it's called
right so this is where the voice in the
head shows up it's like
if you get mad at me then I feel
disconnected and if I don't be myself I
feel disconnected
yeah can you get mad at me I feel
disconnected or if I'm not myself I feel
disconnected right it's a loose loose
it's a lose-lose that's why the problem
when you showed up was how
like I I'm not being myself that's the
problem because that's disconnection
yeah
and I don't I don't I don't know any way
to heal that I don't know any way that
somebody can feel connected and not be
themselves
but I definitely know lots of ways that
people can be feel connected even when
someone's raging at them yeah or being
conflict avoidant or being passive
aggressive or whatever people's
reactions are to
your connection isn't um
doesn't require anyone else my
connection doesn't require anyone else
yeah I'm thinking about my daughter
she's
she's a good teacher and like she might
get gives me a lot of practice Yeah
yeah
how old is she uh three and a half uh
yeah so she's like yeah
do you remember in the early days where
you were like flustered and she would do
something like say I love you
what's flustered
um agitated like you would be a little
amped up or agitated or disconnected and
she would like come over and say I love
you Daddy or do something to create
connection between the two of you do do
you have recollection of her doing that
I have one recollection that comes to
mind where she's like I got mad because
she's spilled milk a couple of weeks ago
yeah and she's only got very solution
mode yeah
yeah surprised like oh whoa that's some
great problem solving
yeah right so that's how she's that's
how she's found to find connection with
you
she has started to realize at three and
a half that the way to get connection
with that is to solve problems
to help him yeah
ouch
right
um
there's a great book called Parenting by
Connection by Patty wiffler it's called
listen but it's a based on parenting by
connection and the whole thesis is
if the kid feels connected your whole
job is to help them feel connected and
if the kid feels connected then there's
no issues it's only when a child feels
disconnected that things have that
there's a problem
and I don't think it's any different
with adults
yeah
teams teams that feel connected are more
you know more functional
people who are more connected or more
functional
when CEOs connect with themselves better
they become better CEOs
they're not acting out of fear
yeah so what I'm experimenting with her
these days is just like
connecting on an emotional level with
her in her emotion and like holding the
space not just saying that's okay that's
okay
but now I got a sense that there's also
like a job for me
because she has learned from observing
me
that when I feel bad I fix things
so I need to stop taking things you
don't you don't need to you don't need
to do anything
that would be
yeah you can just be yourself
[Laughter]
what if that's fixing things
that's fine
just notice what happened
you had this recognition that oh maybe
I'm hurting my daughter shame occurred
okay and you went to fixing things by
changing yourself yeah it happened just
now just now instead of sitting with the
shame
and this is
as if that's not going to solve it
quicker than
yeah
that's like the shift
inside me
the scare is so scary
yeah
don't worry you won't stop solving
problems I promise
yeah you know it's like it's scary
I'm not really in touch with hot all the
scaredness it's just like I realize like
there's this huge wall it's like it's
almost unimaginable
to just like not big than just staying
in the shame and vulnerability
how long do you think the shame will
last
it was it like minutes
I'm glad I said it before my voice just
no but on the other hand you know
Timeless makes it so it's an alternative
[Laughter]
but I don't want those minutes
yeah well I want them I'm not able to
access them at this
it's difficult now there's that word
again
yeah
it's hard it's
scary I need to
exercise
reps help sure perhaps yeah but I need
shame reps there's no no that's fixing
myself is it it depends on the approach
is taking a walk every day fixing
yourself
they're just more enjoyable
yeah because I'm creating this like meta
Loop like yes oh I shouldn't fix myself
because that's fixing fix yeah and then
everything becomes wrong
damn right
right Ah that's what happens when you
don't feel the shame
what happens everything becomes wrong
oh and I don't yeah when I don't feel
ashamed when I avoid the shame
Everything feels throwing yeah I don't
understand the logic but I do understand
it
somehow yeah yeah
yeah so you get it you get it in your
body and your brain hasn't caught up yet
that's totally standard so just to help
just to help with the mental part of it
[Music]
um
if you're avoiding shame if you're
avoiding being yourself then there's
always a reason to be shameful
ah if I'm avoiding shame then I'm also
avoiding being myself
which is disconnected yeah which is
disconnected and then more Shame Shame
Loop yeah yeah that's it
yeah so I'm making it worse yeah so
you're either looking around the room
trying to figure out how not to feel
shame which is a disconnection which
creates shame or
right or you're saying something that's
not true so that you don't get somebody
upset so you can avoid the game so that
creates shame yeah yeah whereas if you
embrace it then
what's to avoid then you just be
yourself
when I embrace it it flows through
yeah what yeah you're happy to embrace
shame then what would stop you from
being yourself
I'm happy to embrace shame
well there's not much left sorry
and there's just me hello I'm offend me
you and I
feeling this shame yeah I want to say oh
I am not shameful no but I am shameful
and like and that's okay yes
yeah and then like there's then what and
there's life yeah and there's just like
wow that was incredible by exploring
triggers and feeling into the shame that
underlies conflict avoidance Our Guest
finds that he can stay in connection
with himself even when others are angry
with him or offended I was particularly
touched by the moment of insight into
how these patterns show up in connection
with his young daughter which really
demonstrates how exploring an issue we
see as impacting our daily work life can
end up having intergenerational
relevance thanks for listening
[Music]
foreign